welcome to slash forward
into another week where we celebrate
letting it all hang out under the light
of the full moon
in this case by stalking through the
film late phases aka
knight of the wolf consider hitting the
like button to connect with others
looking to add to their pack
let's get to it we open bad moon style
as a man with a well-trained shepherd
haggles over the cost of a headstone
ambrose drives a hard bargain and
ultimately elects to walk away and
consider his options
a demonstration of his huge nads his son
will then brings them to the next stop
on their list of errands that day
moving into the assisted living facility
where he'll while away the remainder of
his days
they arrive ahead of the movers so
ambrose takes little time acclimating
himself to his new surroundings
which includes meeting and ingratiating
himself to his new neighbor
i can't see you but you you smell
beautiful damn girl you don't even know
he asked dolores for help identifying
the wall treasure he pulled from his
rental and she thinks it looks like a
claw
and she would know as she is ready to
claw his clothes clean off
the welcoming committee arrives sometime
later but this grizzled war vet doesn't
appreciate the intrusion and his
generally sour attitude is carried over
by shadow as they show their guests the
way out
later that night dolores gets a call
from her daughter while a lurker snoops
outside
ambrose a light sleeper due to the
nightmares that live in his memory is
awoken from his slumber by strange raspy
breathing sounds dolores daughter
disconnects right as something starts
banging on her front door
and after she refuses to answer it busts
in and causes a huge ruckus
ambrose listens through their shared
wall and tries to see if he can be of
assistance but she's predisposed and
their visitor knocks him back
shadow then runs off after it as ambrose
tries to get to his guns
he manages to get his hands on one and
get it loaded but the mysterious beast
is already run off when he finds shadow
he makes a
hopefully not premature assessment that
the wounds are mortal and puts his loyal
friend out of his misery the next
morning the movers finally show up
and discover that they've walked into a
bit of a personal situation for those
involved
will and ann are called in and they take
ambrose to the vet which is of course
where veterans go to receive medical
care he confirms he could tell the
animal that got at them was a dog
by smell and she reveals that they get
monthly calls about attacks like this
and warns about living so close to the
woods after all is said and done he
elects
for some reason to bring shadow home
with him when they get home dolores
daughter let's slip that there have been
rumors about this place despite this
info the police are treating the event
as a basic animal attack which means no
investigation and no further
actions taken it's just nature being
nature y'all
as ambrose makes preparations for
burying his companion and remarks about
all the unusual and high strung people
they've run across that day
must be the full moon and it resonates
with him he rolls this round in his mind
coming to the conclusion that he's
essentially safe for the next month
while the moon is less than full so the
kids head out and he remains behind
unperturbed but even though he has time
he also knows he's got to keep his gun
clean and his wits
sharp when the mailman happens upon him
the next day ambrose kindly requests a
walking tour of the blood trail that was
left by the prior evening's attack when
they arrive at the end of the road he
finds himself at the baker residence he
approaches the home to make himself
acquainted with the residence therein
he's already familiar with gloria from
the welcoming committee but he hasn't
yet met her husband john
however when he finds him he learns that
he's relegated to the confines of an
iron lung the result of an old tennis
injury
as he makes his way home he mulls over
what to make of this development when he
arrives home the police are there to
greet him letting him know that some
residents have complained about his
roaming freely about the parcels
and if it comes to it he's happy to make
it his mission to keep ambrose
firmly within his lane before they leave
he asks about a flyer left at his house
and is told about the weekly shuttle
that brings the old folks to saint
anthony's every sunday
that weekend he awaits patiently his
shovel acting as his new walking stick
for the bus to arrive
when he boards you can hear the old blue
hairs clucking jealously when he pulls a
seat next to father smith
securing his spot in heaven they do
their best to engage in pleasantries
with this unpleasant brutish man
while father smith hacks up a lung
straight into his hand like a savage
ensuring a violent communion
unfortunately for the first timers in
the audience the father has scheduled an
impassioned diatribe about the necessity
of difficult sacrifice
a tough sermon that even gets the
neighborhood dogs all riled up ambrose
finds the father out sinning afterwards
and bums a sig off him the father tries
to relate with ambrose about how his
brother also went away to nam but
it becomes painfully obvious that he
himself is a tender normie regardless
ambrose confines that none of this
matters now because he doesn't plan on
being around much longer i will not
participate
well who asked you to as the days come
and go we watch ambrose spend his time
counting out his steps and learning the
new layout
doing some more grave digging out back
wandering in the rain
keeping things fit and trim for the
ladies and of course
practicing his shovel tai chi down by
the waterbed meanwhile we also see the
ladies from the welcoming committee
looking into getting him ejected from
the bus for their own presumed safety
meaning of course that they really suck
at their job before long he's on another
field trip with the kids
this time he finally selects a proper
headstone and it's a beaut while
settling up he pegs
the salesman as the kind of guy who
could recommend a good gun shop in town
then they drop him off where he
continues to dig shadow's grave as he
does so he's approached by a shrouded
figure
his first instinct is that will forgot
something and came back but the old
sniffer says otherwise
so he puts the guy down with his shovel
and runs to retrieve his gun when he
excitedly returns to show it to him all
that's left is a smelly old scarf
the police confirmed that no one
witnessed the attack but there is
evidence of an intruder as he took the
time to kill a couple of dogs on his way
out of the neighborhood
ambrose also makes note here that the
scarf smelled like smoke
and was spun from fine merino wool so
you may want to write that down
the next day the bus continues on
without him and mr griffin acts as his
personal escort
along the way we learn that jim's been
with the church for a couple of decades
knows the father well and owes him
everything even his sweet ride
he keeps that tucked in his back pocket
but is primarily interested in probing
the father he shares some stories about
how much of a badass he is to see if
maybe father smith will open up with
some of his darkest secrets but the
father is just
too good at playing it close to the
chest ambrose isn't totally sure what to
make of him but then discovers that jim
seems to have a
curious familiar rattle in his breathing
after taken to a coughing spell
later on his new headstone is delivered
and the driver agrees to give him a ride
into town
he meets up with the gunman to see about
putting in a request for some
specialized ammo made of silver
he asks if westmark's ever known anyone
to put in an order
like that before and he confirms that he
did receive a similar request about a
year ago
but we cut to old gym putting some
calming salve on a few pretty
fresh-looking wounds
before heading out back to get to work
tossing some rotted dog carcasses from
his collection into the incinerator
then he tides himself up to embark on
another leaflet canvas for the church
even though they already basically count
the entire retirement community among
their rank he happens to be on ambrose's
block when ambrose returns from his
errands and seems to recognize his
bullet sack
that night ambrose finally lays shadow
to rest and then inside he pulls out on
his son
who cowers in the dark like a soft boy
will complains about the state of the
house but his father ensures him that he
has a system set up that suits him just
fine
with the pleasantries behind them will
drops the bomb that anne is pregnant and
they've decided they want to move closer
to her family the bittersweet departure
turns
sour when will reveals that he knows
ambrose didn't put his ring in mom's
casket like he said and this deceit cuts
deep enough that he had also
already determined that he was going to
wash his hands of his father anyway so
take that daddy elsewhere mr griffin
appears in a residence home in the
middle of the night and asks them to
bend a knee with him clarissa touches
the men with her heartfelt words
and he repays her with a playful nibble
of the wrist the next morning finds jim
at emmy's house where he asks politely
to take her hand
and she complies in a classic old lady
manor
all right but he really meant to take it
and she can't shut up about it so he
sees himself out
later on father smith finds james out
back completing some aesthetic rituals
as penance for his bad behavior but he
confides that these efforts are
fruitless and grows increasingly
despondent as nightfalls
his life has been filled with nothing
but failed absolution after that fateful
evening he went out to hunt the beast
it drew first blood and now he finds
himself unable to rid his body of the
curse which is what happens if you're
injured but don't die
from that point stripping flesh from
bone becomes just a part of the natural
order for you
and anyway he's just letting the father
know so while he's being slaughtered he
understands that his full death
is actually an act of great mercy
ambrose notes a distinct increase in the
distress level of the neighborhood dogs
which we find to be directly
proportional to the degree to which
james is ripping off his titties the
father's like you okay bro and stands
over him to bear witness to as much as
he can tolerate which ends up being a
bit
too much as when he goes to leave james
is now transformed and ready to show off
his standing long jump to claim his
first victim
being out and about already ambrose
starts at the baker residence where he
finds that mrs baker is also a werewolf
and they trade torso injuries but you
have to do more than perforate the
bowels of this grizzled old vet to keep
him down
he gets home to dress his wounds say
goodbye to his son via answering machine
and then finalize the preparations he's
been making these last few weeks
when ready he opens the window and chums
the waters outside
using a cranked up hearing aid to detect
their approach turns out the
neighborhood has a full-on
infestation of wolf people as we see
them congregate outside
ambrose manages to hit one just below
the breast and then gets a perfect head
shot on another that tries to hop up and
peekaboo him downstairs he mingles his
toes
but ultimately manages to take out
another despite his success they keep
coming to him providing him the chance
to use his shotgun to turn this one's
head
into a bloomin onion meanwhile will has
arrived at the neighborhood to take back
everything he said but has some
difficulty getting past the main gate he
tries to call his father but he's a
little tied up right now requiring him
to hop the fence and head in
ambrose then goes outside for the final
battle and carefully counts off his
steps so he can spring his trap however
when this fails he has to think back to
what he practiced on the shore all those
warm summer mornings
and after a little back and forth he
keeps his cool and evens out the playing
field before landing the kill shot when
all is said and done he
takes a breath in his rocker as will
works his way through the carnage toward
him when he arrives he finds his father
in death exactly as he lives
unresponsive
we end on the scene of ambrose's funeral
with the voice over from his voicemail
apologizing to will for all the mistakes
he made as a father and we're left to
wonder with no indications whatsoever
as to whether or not he intends to
remain dead
i have a website set up where you can
support the channel through donations or
merch
i'd like to give a huge thanks to my
donors memorialized in the hall of head
shots
i get the impression that late phases
receive some criticism for its wolf
effects
while they aren't top tier necessarily i
do think they did a good job with what
they had and worked around their
limitations by keeping things story
based and adeptly directing around it
they also made me completely forget
about budgetary limitations around the
transformation scene by going in hard
with the peeling skin
it was a very effective set piece
another thing that i appreciated was
that
while these werewolves seem to be a
little underpowered in comparison to
other movies like this
they didn't suffer from inconsistent
power levels whereas in some other films
the wolf may be introduced as an
unkillable superhero but by the end of
the movie the protagonists are holding
their own in hand-to-hand combat and
that can be
somewhat annoying if you enjoyed the
video i'd love for you to become a part
of the channel by subscribing thanks for
watching